pgTAP 1.1.0
============

[pgTAP](http://pgtap.org) is a unit testing framework for PostgreSQL written
in PL/pgSQL and PL/SQL. It includes a comprehensive collection of
[TAP](http://testanything.org)-emitting assertion functions, as well as the
ability to integrate with other TAP-emitting test frameworks. It can also be
used in the xUnit testing style. For detailed documentation, see the
documentation in `doc/pgtap.mmd` or
[online](http://pgtap.org/documentation.html "Complete pgTAP Documentation").

[![PGXN version](https://badge.fury.io/pg/pgtap.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/pg/pgtap)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/theory/pgtap.png)](https://travis-ci.org/theory/pgtap)

To build it, just do this:

    make
    make install
    make installcheck

If you encounter an error such as:

    "Makefile", line 8: Need an operator

You need to use GNU make, which may well be installed on your system as
`gmake`:

    gmake
    gmake install
    gmake installcheck

If you encounter an error such as:

    make: pg_config: Command not found

Or:

    Makefile:52: *** pgTAP requires PostgreSQL 8.1 or later. This is .  Stop.

Be sure that you have `pg_config` installed and in your path. If you used a
package management system such as RPM to install PostgreSQL, be sure that the
`-devel` package is also installed. If necessary tell the build process where
to find it:

    env PG_CONFIG=/path/to/pg_config make && make install && make installcheck

And finally, if all that fails (and if you're on PostgreSQL 8.1, it likely
will), copy the entire distribution directory to the `contrib/` subdirectory
of the PostgreSQL source tree and try it there without `pg_config`:

    env NO_PGXS=1 make && make install && make installcheck

If you encounter an error such as:

    ERROR:  must be owner of database regression

You need to run the test suite using a super user, such as the default
"postgres" super user:

    make installcheck PGUSER=postgres

Once pgTAP is installed, you can add it to a database. If you're running
PostgreSQL 9.1.0 or greater, it's a simple as connecting to a database as a
super user and running:

    CREATE EXTENSION pgtap;

If you've upgraded your cluster to PostgreSQL 9.1 and already had pgTAP
installed, you can upgrade it to a properly packaged extension with:

    CREATE EXTENSION pgtap FROM unpackaged;

For versions of PostgreSQL less than 9.1.0, you'll need to run the
installation script:

    psql -d mydb -f /path/to/pgsql/share/contrib/pgtap.sql

If you want to install pgTAP and all of its supporting objects into a
specific schema, use the `PGOPTIONS` environment variable to specify the
schema, like so:

    PGOPTIONS=--search_path=tap psql -d mydb -f pgTAP.sql

Dependencies
------------

pgTAP requires PostgreSQL 8.1 or higher, with 8.4 or higher recommended for
full use of its API. It also requires PL/pgSQL.

Copyright and License
---------------------

Copyright (c) 2008-2018 David E. Wheeler. Some rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose, without fee, and without a written agreement is
hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph
and the following two paragraphs appear in all copies.

IN NO EVENT SHALL DAVID E. WHEELER BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING LOST
PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN
IF DAVID E. WHEELER HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

DAVID E. WHEELER SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS,
AND DAVID E. WHEELER HAS NO OBLIGATIONS TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT,
UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.
